# Graph Thinking

- [Neo4j Graph Academy - Lesson](https://graphacademy.neo4j.com/courses/neo4j-fundamentals/1-graph-thinking/1-seven-bridges)

## Structure of a graph
- **Symmetrical**: Relationship that has **no direction** and is equivalent.
	- `(:A)-[:IS_MARRIED_TO]-(:B) = (:B)-[:IS_MARRIED_TO]-(:A)`

- **Asymmetrical**: A **directional relationship** that vary from one node to another (carries a different semantical meaning)
  `(:A)-[:LOVES {value: 7}]->(:B)`
  `(:B)-[:LOVES {value: 3}]->(:A)`

- **Traversal of a Graph** is usually the way a graph is explored to answer questions of the data.
	- Taking in consideration, edge weights, other values at applying algorithms like Dijkstra, A* Search.
	- **Neo4j Cypher Query Language is optimized for node traversal**, so that relationships are not traversed multiple times, which is a huge performance win for an application.

## Property Graphs

#### Labels
- By adding a label to a node, we indicate that the node belongs to a sub-set of nodes within the graph.
- They provide a starting point for a Cypher Query.
- A node can have 0, 1 or many labels.

#### Properties
- Key-value pairs that can be added, modified or removed as necessary
- If a property does not exist for a node, it is treated as a null value

#### Relationships
-   In Neo4j, each relationship must have a direction in the graph
-   Although the direction is required, the relationship can be queried in either direction or ignored completely at Query Time
-   Each relationship must have a `TYPE`, to know what section of the graph will be traversed
-   A relationship can also have properties. They provide additional context to the relationship.
