# What are Grpah Data Bases?

[LinkedIn Learning Course](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/introduction-to-neo4j/navigating-the-world-of-connected-data)
[Neo4j Graph Academy - Lesson](https://graphacademy.neo4j.com/courses/neo4j-fundamentals/1-graph-thinking/1-seven-bridges)

## Background
Graph DB leverage the concept of Graphs in Mathematics:
- **Graph Theory**, a way of representing discrete entities and the relationships that join them.

The inventor of Graph Theory is **Leonhard Euler**. [Seven Bridges of Königsberg.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seven_Bridges_of_K%C3%B6nigsberg)

Graphs can be found everywhere. 
- Different use cases like fraud detection, supply chain management, IT networks (Neo4j offers several real graph examples by industry and use-case) at [Neo4j Case Studies](https://neo4j.com/case-studies/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=PaidSearch&utm_campaign=GDB&utm_content=AMS-X-Conversion-GDB-Text&utm_term=neo4j&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAiAp5qsBhAPEiwAP0qeJmrqgIleU6-bSOAZaF45zxAT7zmFceA8U0AcRsiZOrKCKp4yuJ-n8xoCM2AQAvD_BwE)

GraphDB are **just Databases that specialize in storing and querying data in a graph structure.**

**Graph Databases are fundamentally different from traditional databases because they are designed to understand connections between the data, by treating connections with the same important as the data itself**. They are designed to understand these deep joins in data.

### Types of Graph Data Structures

1. **Resource Description Framework - RDF**
	- `Subject -> Predicate -> Object`
	- Every label, every data type, every descriptor…will be described this way.
	- Efficient transmission between machines
	- Easy to serialize 
	- W3C standard for exchanging data
	
2. **Property Graph**
	- Structures data in a graph format where the data is annotated with properties, labels and types
	- Efficient storage and retrieval of connected data, specially in natively built Graph DB
	- Used in transactional systems, such as those handling purchases
	- Analytical Systems. Those for creating reports or investigating past actions.
	- Organizational operational data

Relational DB and Document DB are not great when we are trying to find a common relationship between 2 entities. **We need to perform a join, and with a large data set, this will perform poorly. On the opposite, in GraphDB, the physical relationship between the entities will exist and we just have to find it.** If the connection is there, we will quickly find it, otherwise the entities won’t be connected and we don’t have to perform any operation.

#### Good GraphDB use cases
Make sure you are looking to a Graph-shaped problem! This will happen when you find yourself **thinking about _entities in relation to other entities_**

- How entities are connected?
- Exploring long connection changes
- Understanding relationships between entities
- “Logistics planning to deliver exam papers”, we will be looking at different roads and calculating route coasts based on expected travel times.
- “Course recommendations based on historical selections”

#### Bad GraphDB
- Investigating lists of data
- Regularly retrieving binary data (such as images)
- “Quarterly fees collected at March”, “Images and descriptions for college website”