# Benefits of Graph DataBases

- [Neo4j Graph Academy - Lesson](https://graphacademy.neo4j.com/courses/neo4j-fundamentals/1-graph-thinking/1-seven-bridges)

## Native Graph Advantage
-   Neo4j is a **NATIVE** Graph Database
-   Everything, from the storage of the data to the query language **has been designed specifically with traversal in mind**.
- **Index-free Adjacency**: 
	- What makes a Native Graph DB step apart from other DB is the concept of “**Index-free adjacency**”. A ***Key feature** that separates Neo4j when compared to RDBMS access.
	- When a database transaction is committed, a reference to the relationship is stored with the nodes at both the start and the end of the relationship. As each node is aware of every in-coming and out-going relationship connected to it, the underlying graph engine will simply search pointers in memory, something that computers are exceptionally good at
-   Neo4j stores nodes and relationships as objects that are linked to each other by pointers. With a Native Graph DB:
	- Plan the query based upon the anchor specified.
	- Use an index to retrieve the anchor node.
	- Follow pointers to retrieve the desired result node.
- Benefits: **Fewer index lookups**, **No table scans**, **Reduce duplication of data**.
	- This result in much faster queries than in RDBMS.

### Compared with other (non-graph) types of DB

**SQL** (**Relational**):
-   The relationships in a GraphDB are stored in **WRITE** time
	-   The query time will remain consistent to the size of the data that is actually touched during a query.
-   The JOINS in a Relational DB are computed at **READ** time.
	-   This means that as the number of records in a relational DB increases, the slower the query becomes.
-   Having **relationships treated as first-class citizens**.
	- Modeling relationships in a graph is more natural than to create pivot tables to create many-to-many relationships.
	- If the relationship between 2 data entities exist, the edge will simply exist. If not, no need to inspect anything.

 **NoSQL**
-   **Key-value stores**.
	- Highly performant for for lookups of huge amounts of simple and complex values

-   **Document**.
	- Accumulates schema-free data that can be easily represented as a tree. Although trees are a form of graphs, trees represent/projects only one perspective of the data.
	- So in conclusion, some non-graph data models can be represented as graphs.