# Data Science Foundations: Knowledge Graphs
[LinkedIn Learning Course]
(https://www.linkedin.com/learning/data-science-foundations-knowledge-graphs/knowledge-graphs-in-corporate-use)

Semantic Search
Semantic Search Functions
Automated Machine Speech

Google Knowledge Graph
schema.org
JSON-LD
Defines a vocabulary of terms that are relevant for search queries on the internet
Also defines a “hierarchy of things”, also known as Taxonomy

Applications: 
eCommerce: Knowledge Graphs for product recommendations (Ex. Amazon)
Recommendation Engines in general (Ex. Netflix new movies suggested for you in the catalog)

A Graph DB can be queried with languages such as Cypher or GraphQL
Cypher is a language to query a Graph DB
SPARQL is a language to query an ontology defined in RDF

What is a Knowledge Graph?
It is a machine readable representation of a knowledge domain, which can be read and processed by humans as well as by machines

The visualization of a Knowledge Graph is an important part of working with it. 
Ex. https://healthecco.org/covidgraph/ 

Use-Cases of Knowledge Graphs:
Knowledge Management (within an organization)
Recommender Engines (Customer Preferences)
Machine Learning with Knowledge Graphs:
Knowledge Base for Artificial Intelligence: This is some times called “Machine Teaching”
Knowledge Graphs can improve the results of AI (Chatbots, Text Mining)

Digital Transformation. Migrate all documents, and old-format files to Knowledge Graph so effective Knowledge Management can be achieved.
Information from large volumes of text documents can be processed using semantic technologies. Then, unstructured data can be turned into a Knowledge Base.
Semantic Technology can help bringing together data from different SILOs (Benefit: Cross-collaboration)

Machine Teaching: Provide machines with a Knowledge Base (Knowledge Graph)
Data management and text mining can also be improved with Knowledge Graphs
For example, when the enterprise needs to process large volumes of documents and extract knowledge from them?
Knowledge Graphs can be used to improve the results of Machine Learning <- Machine Teaching
Ex. The error rate in text recognition is too high, then you should first consider building a Knowledge Base with a Knowledge Graph and then making the Machine Learning Algorithms available to it

How to build a Knowledge Graph?
Step1: Taxonomy
Build a taxonomy of your company’s terms. Inspect the existing vocabulary. There are already industry-specific taxonomies and ontologies available (PoolParty Vocabulary Hub)
Step 2: Ontology
It is a model of how the terms in your knowledge area are related to each other (the are existing ontologies)
Step 3: Build a knowledge base and feed it with data
Analyze a large volume of text documents with ML and map them to a knowledge graph. (Ex. PoolParty HR Recommender)
Step 4: Make knowledge usable internally and externally
The knowledge graph can be connected with existing IT applications and thus, build a knowledge pool.

#linkedin-learning